# SoftwareSecurity
In this project, Aremis Financial was a ficticious financial institution. They requested encryption implementation on their long-term archive files and secure communications to be established. This would be implemented through a checksum verification function, a generated self-signed certificate, and the conversion of the web-based application from HTTP to HTTPS.
In this project, I implemented plugins into the pom.xml file, created certificated and implemented the checksum verification function very well. Code security is an important aspect of development because most, if not everyone, has an expectation of data privacy. Most organizations and end users expect no vulnerabilities that will leave their sensitive data available to attackers. Secure coding is a way to meet these expectations and give the client peace of mind. Software security allows for an institution to either gain or maintain customer confidence. For example, if a company has software with major vulnerabilities which allow for SQL injections and root access, customer information is easy to steal and the trust in the company diminishes.
The most challenging part of the vulnerability assessment was determining false positives. Most of the vulnerabilities could be allieviated by simply updating the dependency which leads to many false positives. However, knowing what dependencies were out of date was very helpful in this project.
I increased layers of security in this project by adding an encryption algorithm, a self signed certificate, and implementing HTTPS. The way I would assess vulnerabilities in the future would be a several step process. First, I would obtain requirements from the client and implement these requirements. Next, I would run dependency tests to see if any dependencies are out of date and if I added any extra vulnerabilites with my additions. Finally, I would thoroughly test the code to check for functionality, error handling and encapsulation.
I ensured functionality and security in this application through thorough testing. Additionally, It was determined that no new vulnerabilities were introduced through my refactored code by comparing the OWASP dependency test before and after implementation of new features.
Helpful resources used in this porject include StackOverflow and GitHub. These resources helped reinforce concepts related to web based application development. Prior to this course I had little experience with developing a web based application and after referring to these resources I have learned how do so.
I would show the source code of this assignment and the refactored checksum function to show the skill of implementing cryptography in a web-based application. I would supplement this by showing employers my Practices for Secure Software Report document to prove that all added secuirty measures were functional.
